# `articleRecommendationsApi`: API Documentation

## Overview

The `articleRecommendationsApi` is a set of endpoints created using `rtkApi` for fetching article recommendations. 
This API enhances content discovery by providing users with tailored article suggestions based on specified criteria.

## Description
The `articleRecommendationsApi` includes the `getArticleRecommendationsList` query, which retrieves a list of recommended articles. 
This endpoint leverages Redux Toolkit Query for efficient data fetching and state management.

### Import Details
- `rtkApi`: The base API service from **'@/shared/api/rtkApi'**.
- `Article`: The type definition for articles from **'@/entities/Article'**.
- `ArticleCategory`: The type definition for article categories from **'@/entities/Article'**.


###  Parameters
The query expects an object containing the following properties:

| Parameter  | Type                    | Description                                                                                                                       |
|------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `limit`   | `number`                | The maximum number of articles to fetch.                                                                                                                                  |
| `category` | `ArticleCategory` | The category of articles to fetch. |
| `exceptArticleId` | `string` | The ID of an article to exclude from the results. |



### Type Parameters `<Article[], ArticleRecommendationsParams>`:
The query is defined with two type parameters:
1. `Article[]` indicates that the query returns an array of articles.
2. Interface `ArticleRecommendationsParams ` defines the shape of the argument object that the query expects.

### Query Function
The `query` function constructs the request object, setting the URL to `/articles` and including the necessary parameters:
- `_limit`: The limit on the number of articles.
- `_expand`: Expands the user data associated with the articles.
- `id_ne`: Excludes the specified article ID.
- `category`: Filters articles by category, unless the category is ArticleCategory.ALL.

### Automatically Generated Hook
The `useArticleRecommendationsList` hook is automatically generated by the RTK Query, providing a convenient way to access the getArticleRecommendationsList query in your React components. 
This hook is capable of caching, remembering, and returning previously fetched data, minimizing unnecessary network requests and enhancing performance.


### Exported Query
`useArticleRecommendationsList` is exported from the module, allowing it to be used in other parts of the application to initiate the query.
The hook automatically handles caching, remembering fetched data, and efficiently returning it when the same query is made again.



## Usage Example
This example demonstrates how to use `useArticleRecommendationsList` to fetch recommended articles and display them in a React component.

```typescript jsx

import { memo } from 'react';
import { Text } from '@/shared/ui/redesigned/Text';
import {
    ArticleCategory,
    ArticleList,
    useArticleDetailsData,
} from '@/entities/Article';
import { VStack } from '@/shared/ui/redesigned/Stack';
import { useArticleRecommendationsList } from '../../api/articlearticleRecommendationsApi';

interface ArticleRecommendationsListProps {
    className?: string;
}

export const ArticleRecommendationsList = memo(
    (props: ArticleRecommendationsListProps) => {
        const article = useArticleDetailsData();
        const articleCategory = article?.category[0] || ArticleCategory.ALL;
        const {
            isLoading,
            data: articles,
            error,
        } = useArticleRecommendationsList({
            limit: 3,
            category: articleCategory,
            exceptArticleId: article?.id || '0',
        });

        if (isLoading || error || !articles) {
            return null;
        }
        return (
            <VStack gap="8" >
                <Text size="l" title="Рекомендуємо" />
                <ArticleList articles={articles} target="_blank" />
            </VStack>
            );
        },
    );
```

## Conclusion 
The `articleRecommendationsApi` offers a powerful and efficient solution for fetching article recommendations, significantly enhancing user engagement by providing relevant and tailored content. By utilizing Redux Toolkit Query, the API ensures seamless state management and efficient data fetching, reducing the complexity of managing server state in your application.

The automatically generated `useArticleRecommendationsList` hook further simplifies integration by handling caching, remembering previously fetched data, and intelligently returning it when needed, which optimizes performance and reduces redundant network requests. This approach not only improves the user experience but also makes your application's codebase more maintainable and scalable.

The use of type parameters in the API ensures strong type safety, providing clear expectations for both the query's arguments and its responses, thereby reducing potential errors and enhancing the development experience.
